= Cockatoo

Cockatoo is a simple chat server. It's coded in Ruby with the help of the fantastic EventMachine[http://rubyeventmachine.com/].

There are several techniques to handle the real-time web, but we decided to use the Long Polling technique.
It works with plenty of browsers.

If you don't know EventMachine and Long Polling, maybe you can read {"Long Polling with Event Machine"}[http://www.slideshare.net/novelys/long-polling-with-event-machine].

* homepage[http://github.com/novelys/cockatoo]

== Server part

The server part is coded in Ruby and EventMachine. The protocol is pretty straightforward.

== Client part

You can use any client part you want.
We provide 4 components so you can setup a simple chat system in any Ruby/Rails app you're working on :
*  _chat_initialization[http://github.com/novelys/cockatoo/raw/master/extra/_chat_initialization.html.haml] HAML template
* _chat[http://github.com/novelys/cockatoo/raw/master/extra/_chat.html.haml] HAML template
* chat.js[http://github.com/novelys/cockatoo/raw/master/extra/chat.js] is the javascript client library (you will need jQuery[http://jquery.com], ScrollTo[http://plugins.jquery.com/project/ScrollTo] and sprintf[http://www.diveintojavascript.com/projects/javascript-sprintf])
* chat.css[http://github.com/novelys/cockatoo/raw/master/extra/chat.css] is the CSS stylesheet

Just include the 2 templates and the javascript lib in your layout and you'll be good to go.

Here are two screenshots of the client side in action :
* http://www.novelys.com/assets/Gallery/Lollidays/BigFrame5.png
* http://www.novelys.com/assets/Gallery/TheSphere/BigFrame3.png

== Installation

  gem install cockatoo

== Usage

Beware that you'll need a "log" directory located where you will run cockatoo.

start the server (by default it will run on the 8000 port)
  cockatoo start

start the server on the 9000 port
  cockatoo start -- 9000

stop the server
  cockatoo stop

restart the server
  cockatoo restart

You will need an HTTP server in front of your Ruby/Rails app and your chat server.

In Nginx, you will have to add something like the following to your configuration file :

  server {
    listen 80;
    server_name mywebapp.com;
    root /home/rails/www/lollidays/current/public;
    passenger_enabled on;

    location /chat {
      proxy_pass        http://mychatserver:8000;
      proxy_set_header  X-Real-IP  $remote_addr;
    }
  }

And in Apache :

  ProxyPass          /chat http://mychatserver:8000
  ProxyPassReverse   /chat http://mychatserver:8000
  ProxyPreserveHost  On


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Novelys[http://www.novelys.com]. See LICENSE[http://github.com/novelys/cockatoo/raw/master/LICENSE] for details.

== Contributors

* {Yann Klis}[http://github.com/yannski] inital work and packaging
* {Sébastien Pierre}[http://github.com/sebastien] client side HTML and CSS
* {Nicolas Blanco}[http://github.com/slainer68]

